# Membership Card Protocol
*A secure tool for building trust and exchanging resources in community.*

## What’s a Membership Card?
A membership card is a digital id that communities can give out to prove that people are trusted. Think about a library card, a union card, or being a "card-carrying member" of a community. A card can be used to access exclusive information, conversations, and resources that a community stores anywhere on the internet. If you choose to show a card, it offers strong proof that you are trusted by a community. If you choose not to show it, no one knows that it exists.

## Membership Cards make it easy to create and share community resources
Taryn decides to try creating a card and giving it out to her neighbors. She has them scan a QR code at the local block party, and they use biometric confirmation on their phones to accept it. Now it’s easy for anyone to create a place anywhere on the internet that’s only accessible to people from the neighborhood.

One neighbor decides to create a neighbors-only list of free stuff. Another creates a community calendar that requires a neighborhood card to view and post. A kid decides to create a neighbors-only Minecraft server. When someone loads up the server they just need to drag their card from a wallet to the login request to enter.

## Membership Cards help you trust people from adjacent communities
One day Taryn gets a message from someone named Fatima who has a card showing that she’s a volunteer lead at the local YMCA. A few other cards are attached to demonstrate why she’s trustworthy: one that proves that she’s active in her local mosque, and one that proves she’s a teacher at a local middle school. Each card has information about the ways that this woman has been recognized by her community, which makes it easier for Taryn to know that the conversation is worth her time.

Fatima is working with the Y to experiment with a neighborhood-level fitness program, and wants to know if Taryn would like to sign up folks from her neighborhood. Taryn sees a few cards attached to the program- one from a director at the national Y, a few from physicians and local politicians. It’s easy to validate that these cards are legitimate, for example the doctor’s cards are tied to their licenses with the American Medical Association. Because it’s easy to see that the program is legitimate and approved by trusted third parties, it’s easy for Taryn to say yes. She writes back and offers to meet Fatima for tea to discuss the rollout.

## Membership Cards enable accountability for bad behavior
The fitness program is a success. Members of the neighborhood log in with their cards, complete challenges, and can encourage one another and engage in friendly competition. Unfortunately, after a few weeks Taryn gets a message from one of the fitness program moderators. Attached is a message, tied to a card from someone in her community, which includes some competitive smacktalk that passed a line. It’s more than a screenshot, the attachment has cryptographic proof that this particular cardholder made this particular statement. Normally Taryn can’t see how card-holders behave across the internet, but she can be notified if someone behaves inappropriately. Because she’s close to people in her neighborhood she’s often better positioned to intervene than moderators are.

Taryn sees that the card is tied to a 16 year old boy who means well but sometimes pushes boundaries. After checking in with his dad, she sends him a message with proof of his behavior explaining that it is unacceptable. He writes back, sharing some context that the quote was drawn from, and agreeing that he crossed a line and will be more mindful in the future. Taryn makes it clear that if the behavior continues she may add a negative note to his card, so that anyone he shows it to knows he has been using it to insult others. She could also revoke the card entirely, shutting him out of the fitness program and the neighborhood’s other resources. Thankfully he learns his lesson and none of these steps are necessary.

## With consent, Membership Cards are a powerful way to collect data about communities
A few months later, City Hall decides to set up a program to distribute microgrants for people building thriving neighborhoods, and Taryn decides to put in an application. By default she can’t see much about the card ecosystem she’s created, just the neighborhood chats that she controls, so she sends out a message asking for a data donation. People get back to her with data about the rich relationships that have happened among neighbors because of her work, not the content of messages but the frequency with which people are messaging and easily verifiable statements about how neighbors have begun to care for one another in new ways. She also asks Fatima, who donates anonymized data from the YMCA fitness program about who people from her neighborhood are staying healthy together.

She bundles all of this data together and submits it to City Hall. With a few quick requests, it’s easy for Taryn to collect a compelling picture of all of the ways that the people she has helped connect are showing up in supportive and transformative ways in one another’s lives. This data is anonymized but easily verifiable in a way that it would be impossible for Taryn to fake. That makes it easy for City Hall to give out small grants to people like Taryn with minimal due diligence. Real estate developers, state programs, and wealthy Donor-Advised Fund (DAF) holders all put money into the city program because it can demonstrate clear results, and local programs like Taryn become steadily more common and well resourced.

## Membership Cards are private and secure
The cards that Taryn is using are easy to set up and easy to use, but are backed by strong cryptography. No one but Taryn knows all of the cards she has, not even the tech companies hosting the infrastructure that make cards possible. No one knows how Taryn is using her cards but Taryn, unless she chooses to share that information (like people from her neighborhood did with her) or is reported to a card granter (like when the fitness program reported the boy in her neighborhood). If Taryn uses two different cards in two different communities there is no way to link them to the same person.

Sharing a card also lays a foundation for encrypted communication that is resistant to both man-in-the-middle attacks and decryption by quantum computers. Cards make strong privacy and security a default wherever they are used.

## Membership Cards are owned by the people and organizations that use them
The Membership Card Protocol is decentralized. Taryn uses an app to manage the cards on her phone and back them up, but she can easily switch between a dozen apps that perform this service whenever she wants to. No one company owns the Membership Card Protocol, which lets Taryn choose the cheapest, most privacy-protecting, and most values-aligned option available. When deciding on a new app, she can examine reviews from experts in security and trust and safety to ensure that it is well designed and thoroughly tested.

Cards can be created for a fraction of a penny, but Taryn decides to pay $10 per month for a service with almost unlimited card creation and more bells and whistles. This money goes to building better software, and to helping keep the card ecosystem safe and secure.